# 我所知的良好的系统设计

原文出自: https://www.seangoedecke.com/good-system-design/


### What is system design?
The primitives of software design are variables, functions, classes, and so on. 

The primitives of system design are app servers, databases, caches, queues, event buses, proxies, and so on


### Recognizing good design
If a system has distributed-consensus mechanisms, many different forms of event-driven communication, CQRS, and other clever tricks, I wonder if there’s some fundamental bad decision that’s being compensated for

a complex system that works always evolves from a simple system that works. Beginning from scratch with a complex system is a really bad idea.

### State and statelessness

You should try and minimize the amount of stateful components in any system.


### Databases

##### Schemas and indexes

I aim to have my tables be human-readable: you should be able to go through the database schema and get a rough idea of what the application is storing and why

Indexes work like nested dictionaries, so make sure to put the highest-cardinality fields first

##### Bottlenecks

Once a database gets overloaded, it gets slow, which makes it more overloaded

consider throttling your queries

##### Slow operations, fast operations

##### Caching

A cache is a source of state. It can get weird data in it, or get out-of-sync with the actual truth, or cause mysterious bugs by serving stale data, and so on

##### Events

You shouldn’t overuse events. Much of the time it’s better to just have one service make an API request to another service: all the logs are in the same place, it’s easier to reason about, and you can immediately see what the other service responded with.

##### Pushing and pulling

##### Hot paths

##### Logging and metrics

##### Killswitches, retries, and failing gracefully
